## Motivation and Purpose

Stock prices are easily influenced by the overall economic environment and are sensitive to financial crisis. Therefore, it is better to hold a stock in the long run to capture more capital gains. More and more people nowadays are interested in stock markets, but few people know the risks in stock markets and the value of long-term investment. To address this issue, my teammates and I propose building a data visualization app that uses historical stock price data to present price fluctuations, and  long-term investment gains and losses. Our app will show the monthly price fluctuations, monthly percentage changes in stock prices, major economic turmoil, investment value fluctuations, and long-term investment returns. 

## Description of the data

The dataset we are using is called `Stocks` from the `vega-datasets`. The dataset has 560 observations in total. The original dataset has 3 columns: `symbol`, `date`, and `price`. `symbol` lists out the stock ticker symbol for the companies included in the dataset. It has 5 companies in total, and they are Microsoft, Amazon, IBM, Google, and Apple. For visualization and readability purpose, we renamed the column to `company`, and replaced  the stock ticker symbol with actual company names. The  `date` column lists out the date when the stock price was recorded. The `date` ranges from January 1, 2000 to March 1, 2010. The date range is the same for Microsoft, Amazon, IBM, and Apple. Each of them has 123 observations in the dataset. Because Google held its IPO in August, 2004, the record for Google starts from August 1, 2004. Thus, Google has 68 observations. The `price` column lists out the price of that stock on that day. For plotting and grouping benefits, we created the `year` column, which just extracted the year from the `date` column. We created the `monthly_return` column, which is the monthly percentage changes in stock prices. We also created the `volatility` column, which is the standard deviation of each stock in each year. In order to calculate the investment value and investment return of each stock, we created `shares` and `inv_value` columns. We assume that the investor started with an initial investment of $10,000 in January 1, 2000. The `shares` column is calculated as $10,000 divided by the price at January 1, 2000. For Google it is $10,000 divided by the price at August 1, 2004. The `inv_value` column was calculated by `price` * `shares`. To calculate the investment return at each period, we created another column called `investment_return`, which was `inv_value` divided by 10,000 and minused 1. 

## Research questions and usage scenarios

Ted is a layman in financial markets. He just becomes interested in the stock markets and he wants to [explore] how stock prices changed in the past. He is interested in the tech industry, especially these five companies: Microsoft, Amazon, IBM, Google, and Apple. He wants to [explore] their price fluctuations, monthly price changes, and hypothetical investment returns. He wants to be able to [compare] the price changes of different stocks, and [identify] when there was greatest price volatility. He also wants to be able to [compare] the hypothetical investment returns of different stocks, and [identify] which stock gives the highest return. When Ted logs on to the “Stocks Price and Return” app, he will see the plot of monthly price from January 2000 to March 2010 of the five stocks. He can select stocks that are interested and compare them. He can zoom in or zoom out to select the time range of interest. When doing so, Ted may find out that during the 2008 financial crisis, the price fluctuations were the most. Then he can take a closer look at the monthly stock price percentage changes plot to further examine how the financial crisis affected stock prices. Ted may find out that the stock prices dropped significantly during the financial crisis. Next, he can take a look at the investment value of the five stocks from January 2000 to March 2010. He can zoom in or zoom out to select the time period to take a closer look at the investment value at that time. In another graph, Ted can check out the yearly investment return for each stock from 2000 to 2010. By doing so, Ted may find out that Apple will give him the highest return and it may be best for him to hold the stock from the beginning till the end. This may give Ted some basic ideas of how stock prices fluctuate and how long-term investment can help him get through financial crisis. Next, Ted decides to look at stock prices between 2010 and 2019 and investigate if the conclusions still hold in more recent data. 
